[ADD] Live Chat: Reports (#8310)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/websites/livechat/reports.rst

=======
Reports
=======

Odoo *Live Chat* includes several reports that allow for the monitoring of operator performance and
the identification of trends in customer conversations.

Available reports
=================

The following reports are included in the *Live Chat* app:

- :ref:`Sessions History <livechat/sessions-history>`
- :ref:`Session Statistics <livechat/session-statistics>`
- :ref:`Operator Analysis <livechat/operator-analysis>`

.. note::
   The *Live Chat Ratings Report* can also be accessed through the :guilabel:`Report` menu. For more
   information on this report, and on the *Live Chat* rating process, see :doc:`Live Chat Ratings
   <../livechat/ratings>`.

To access the available reports, navigate to the :menuselection:`Live Chat app --> Report menu`.

.. _livechat/sessions-history:

Sessions History
----------------

The *Sessions History* report displays an overview of live chat sessions, including participant
names, session dates, and the duration of the session. It also provides access to the complete

> transcripts of live chat sessions, which open in the *Discuss* app.

Reviewer: They also show the country, number of messages, and the ratings.

> .. image:: reports/sessions-history.png

Reviewer: For some reason it give me an "unable to render" error for this image below. I don't want to reload the page in case I lose my comments, so I'd check that it's compressed and/or appears. Could totally be a guthub error on my end.

   :align: center
   :alt: Example of the Sessions History report from the Live Chat application.

The information in this report can be exported or inserted into a spreadsheet. Click the
:guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon at the end of the words :guilabel:`History` in the top-left corner. This
reveals a drop-down menu. Click :guilabel:`Export All` to export all sessions to a spreadsheet, or

> :guilabel:`Spreadsheet` to insert the information in a new or existing spreadsheet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Spreadsheet : Indert list in spreadsheet` to insert the information in a new or existing spreadsheet.
```

To export only select sessions, first select the sessions to be exported from the list. Then, click
the checkbox to the left of each individual session to select it. Click the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)
Actions` icon in the top-center of the page, and click :guilabel:`Export`, or

> :guilabel:`Spreadsheet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet`.
```

> To view the transcript of an individual conversation, select it from the list and click. The page
> conversation opens in the *Discuss* app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the transcript of an individual conversation, click anywhere on the entry line. The page
conversation opens in the *Discuss* app.
```

> conversation opens in the *Discuss* app.

Reviewer: I see "Live Chat" in the top left corner, so it looks like I am still in the live chat app. Is it just puling the data from discuss and it loads in the live chat app? Might want to clarify that.

I also assume the dicsuss app needs t be installed to view this?

Author: The discuss app is always installed (even on one-app free dbs) so I do not think that needs to be specified. 
And yes, *technically* you are still in the Live Chat app, however it is in the Discuss interface,. :+1:

> conversation opens in the *Discuss* app.

Author: *Technically* you are still in the Live Chat app, however, it is in the discuss app interface. In V16 and below this report opens in a static window. The way this change is described by the developers who worked on this changed was that this opens "in Discuss". However, Lara had a similar comment, so it does seem to be confusing. I am going to change it from "open in Discuss app" to "Discuss thread", which will hopefully convey the right information without being as confusing.

In the *Discuss* app, the conversation view displays the entire transcript of the conversation. At
the top of the conversation is a list of the web pages the visitor browsed before beginning their
chat session, with time stamps. If the visitor left a rating, it is included at the end of the
transcript.

> .. image:: reports/chat-transcript.png

Reviewer: Optional- but is there a chat record of a happy exchange? Just to keep things light and not focus on upset customers =D  Like "I am missing a screw for my table" "Ok, we're mailing it to you right away" "5 stars", or something similar.

   :align: center
   :alt: View of the chat transcript in the Discuss application.

.. _livechat/session-statistics:

Session Statistics
------------------

> The *Session Statistics* provides a statistical overview of live chat sessions. The default view for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Session Statistics* report provides a statistical overview of live chat sessions. The default view for
```

this report is to display sessions grouped by the date of creation.

.. figure:: reports/sessions-statistics.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of the Sessions Statistics report from the Live Chat application.

>    The stacked bar graph view of the Session Statistics report, with results grouped by Creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The stacked bar graph view of the *Session Statistics* report, with results grouped by Creation
```
It appears on the screen- it's not clickable so it doesn't get a GUI, at least, I don't think it does. But then I think it should get an italics?

>    Date (hour), then by rating.

Reviewer: Is that filter (that I see in the image) the default one? Only asking because I don't see those in runbot- but there's not a lot of info in there, so I am not sure.

Author: They aren't, which is why I added the caption. Unfortunately, because runbot (and the demo db I created) only has a day of data, the report was very boring to look at with the default filters, so I had to do some finagling to make it worthy of a screenshot.

> To view a different measure, click the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down at the top-left of the report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view a different measure, click the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down menu at the top-left of the report.
```

The measures available for this report include:

> - :guilabel:`# of Speakers`: number of participants in the conversation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`# of speakers`: number of participants in the conversation.
```
it appears with a lower-case "s" on the UI

- :guilabel:`Days of activity`: number of days since the operator's first session.
- :guilabel:`Duration of Session (min)`: the duration of a conversation, in minutes.
- :guilabel:`Is visitor anonymous`: denotes whether the conversation participant is anonymous.
- :guilabel:`Messages per session`: the total number of messages sent in a conversation. This
  measure is included in the default view.

> - :guilabel:`Rating`: the rating received by an operator at the end of a session,if one was

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Rating`: the rating received by an operator at the end of a session, if one was
```

  provided.
- :guilabel:`Session not rated`: denotes if a session did **not** receive a rating at the end of the
  conversation.
- :guilabel:`Time to answer (sec)`: the average time, in seconds, before an operator responds to a
  chat request.
- :guilabel:`Visitor is Happy`: denotes whether a positive rating was provided. If the visitor gave
  either a negative or neutral rating, they are considered *unhappy*.
- :guilabel:`Count`: the total number of sessions.

.. _livechat/operator-analysis:

Operator Analysis
-----------------

The *Operator Analysis* report is used to monitor the performance of individual live chat operators.

> The default view for this report is a *bar chart*, which displays only conversations from this
> month. Conversations are grouped by operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default view for this report is a *bar chart*, which displays only conversations from the current 
month. Conversations are grouped by operator.
```

> The *Operator Analysis* report is used to monitor the performance of individual live chat operators.
> The default view for this report is a *bar chart*, which displays only conversations from the
> current month. Conversations are grouped by operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Operator Analysis* report is used to monitor the performance of individual live chat operators.

To access the report, navigate to :menuselection:`Live Chat app --> Reports --> Operator Analysis`.

The default view for this report is a bar chart, which only displays conversations from the current
month, as indicated by the :guilabel:`This Month` default search filter. Conversations are grouped
by operator.
```

> To view a different measure, click the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down at the top-left of the report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view a different measure, click the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down menu at the top-left of the report.
```

The measures available for this report include:

- :guilabel:`# of Sessions`: the number of sessions an operator participated in. This measure is
  included by default.
- :guilabel:`Average duration`: the average duration of a conversation, in seconds.
- :guilabel:`Average rating`: the average rating received by the operator.

> - :guilabel:`Time to answer`: the average amount of time before the operator responds to a chat

Reviewer: in seconds? Only because that's called out in Average Duration.

  request, in seconds.
- :guilabel:`Count`: the total number of sessions.

.. image:: reports/operator-analysis.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of the Operator Analysis report from the Live Chat application.

View and filter options
=======================

On any Odoo report, the view and filter options vary, depending on what data is being analyzed,
measured, and grouped. See below for additional information on the available views for the *Live
Chat* reports.

.. note::
   The :ref:`Sessions History <livechat/sessions-history>` report is **only** available in *list
   view*.

Pivot view
----------

The *pivot* view presents data in an interactive manner. The :ref:`Session Statistics
<livechat/session-statistics>` and :ref:`Operator Analysis <livechat/operator-analysis>` reports are
available in pivot view.

The pivot view can be accessed on a report by selecting the :guilabel:`grid icon` at the top-right
of the screen.

> To add a group to a row or column to the pivot view, click the :guilabel:`➕ (plus sign)` next to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a group to a row or column, click the :guilabel:`➕ (plus sign)` icon next to
```

> :guilabel:`Total`, and then select one of the groups. To remove one, click the :guilabel:`➖ (minus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Total`, and then select one of the groups from the drop-down menu that appears. To remove one, click the :guilabel:`➖ (minus
```

> sign)` and de-select the appropriate option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sign)` icon, and de-select the appropriate option.
```

Graph view
----------

The *graph* view presents data in either a *bar*, *line*, or *pie* chart. The :ref:`Session
Statistics <livechat/session-statistics>` and :ref:`Operator Analysis <livechat/operator-analysis>`
reports are available in graph view.

Switch to the graph view by selecting the :guilabel:`line chart icon` at the top-right of the

> screen. To switch between the different charts, select the *related icon* at the top-left of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
screen. To switch between the different charts, select the desired view's corresponding icon at the top-left of the
```

chart, while in graph view.

.. tip::

>    Both the bar chart and line chart can utilize the stacked view option. This presents two or more
>    groups of data on top of each other, instead of next to each other, making it easier to compare
>    data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Both the bar chart and line chart can utilize the *stacked* view option. This presents two or more
   groups of data on top of each other, instead of next to each other, making it easier to compare
   data.
```

Save and share a favorite search
--------------------------------

> The *Favorites* feature found on reports allows users to save their most commonly used filters
> without having to reconstruct them every time they are needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Favorites* feature found on reports allows users to save their most commonly used filters,
without having to reconstruct them every time they are needed.
```

> To create and save a *Favorites* on a report, follow the steps below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create and save a filter to the *Favorites* section on the search bar drop-down menu, follow the steps below:
```

#. Set the necessary parameters using the :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By` and

>    :guilabel:`Measures` options.

Reviewer 2: could be helpful to mention where these are found (under the search bar drop-down menu)

#. Click the :guilabel:`🔻(triangle pointed down)` icon next to the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to
   open the drop-down menu.
#. Under the :guilabel:`Favorites` heading, click :guilabel:`Save current search`.
#. Rename the search.

> #. Select :guilabel:`Use by default` to have these filter settings automatically displayed when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select :guilabel:`Default filter` to have these filter settings automatically displayed when the
```

>    report is opened. Otherwise, leave it blank.

Reviewer: From what I am seeing, you click the option- so there's nothing to leave blank, you just don't select it (unless I am not looking at my runbot the right way)

> #. Select :guilabel:`Share with all users` to make this filter available to all other database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select :guilabel:`Shared` to make this filter available to all other database
```

month, as indicated by the :guilabel:`This Month` default search filter. Conversations are grouped
by operator.

To view a different measure, click the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down menu at the top-left of the
report. The measures available for this report include:

- :guilabel:`# of Sessions`: the number of sessions an operator participated in. This measure is
  included by default.
- :guilabel:`Average duration`: the average duration of a conversation, in seconds.
- :guilabel:`Average rating`: the average rating received by the operator.
- :guilabel:`Time to answer`: the average amount of time before the operator responds to a chat
  request, in seconds.
- :guilabel:`Count`: the total number of sessions.

.. image:: reports/operator-analysis.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of the Operator Analysis report from the Live Chat application.

View and filter options
=======================

On any Odoo report, the view and filter options vary, depending on what data is being analyzed,
measured, and grouped. See below for additional information on the available views for the *Live
Chat* reports.

.. note::

>    The :ref:`Sessions History <livechat/sessions-history>` report is **only** available in *list
>    view*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The :ref:`Sessions History <livechat/sessions-history>` report is **only** available in list
   view.
```

Pivot view
----------

The *pivot* view presents data in an interactive manner. The :ref:`Session Statistics
<livechat/session-statistics>` and :ref:`Operator Analysis <livechat/operator-analysis>` reports are
available in pivot view.

The pivot view can be accessed on a report by selecting the :guilabel:`grid icon` at the top-right
of the screen.

To add a group to a row or column, click the :guilabel:`➕ (plus sign)` icon next to
:guilabel:`Total`, and then select one of the groups from the drop-down menu that appears. To remove
one, click the :guilabel:`➖ (minus sign)` icon, and de-select the appropriate option.

Graph view
----------

The *graph* view presents data in either a *bar*, *line*, or *pie* chart. The :ref:`Session
Statistics <livechat/session-statistics>` and :ref:`Operator Analysis <livechat/operator-analysis>`
reports are available in graph view.

> Switch to the graph view by selecting the :guilabel:`line chart icon` at the top-right of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Switch to the graph view by selecting the :guilabel:`line chart` icon at the top-right of the
```
